---
title: "Linux, the data scientist's best friend"
layout: post
date: 2020-03-04
image: "linux.webp"
mathjax: "true"
categories: ["Computer Science"]

---

### Some simple commands

The exact format of the date and time as printed by **date** varies from one system to another, but it displays what the system thinks is the current date and time (because it can be changed by the super-user).

```bat
$ date
mercredi 4 mars 2020, 23:13:50 (UTC+0100)
```

Another simple one-word command tells you who is using the system.

```bat
$ who
me     :1           2020-03-04 20:54 (:1)
```

A variation of the **who** command is **whoami**. Used to find out who opened the current terminal or session.

The **passwd** command changes passwords for user accounts. A normal user may only change the password for his/her own account, while the superuser may change the password for any account.  passwd also changes the account or associated password validity period.

```bat
$ passwd
```
The **rm** (remove files) command is:

```bat
$ rm [-fri] file ...
```
- -f ignore nonexistent files and arguments, never prompt
- -i prompt before every removal
- -r remove directories and their contents recursively

The **pwd** command is a request to **p**rint the **w**orking **d**irectory.

```bat
$ pwd
/home/me
```

The **ls** command is a request to the system to ***list the contents of a directory***. If no directory is specified on the **ls** command line, you get a list of files in the current directory, which is the one you are working in.

```bat
$ ls [-al]
```

The **-a** (for all) option to **ls** asks that all files (even hiffen) and subdirectories are listed. The **-l** (for long) option asks for a long listing; without it only the names of the files and subdirectories are shown. The period character "**.**" (usually called "dot") means the current directory. The two periods "**..**" means the parent directory.

You are the owner of your own "home" directory, you are not necessarily the owner of the parent directory. The slash character , /, is called the ***root*** of the file system.

```bat
$ ls -l dir1 dir2
```

The **ls** command above requests a ***long*** display of the two directories ***dir1*** and ***dir2***. This form of **ls** places the name of each directory before the information for its subdirectories.